---
layout: post
title: "create more than i consume"
date: 2026-01-19
excerpt: "This year, my goal is to create more than I consume."
---

This year, my goal is to create more than I consume.

Towards the end of 2025, I felt like I filled every nook and cranny of my day with consumption. I would read books at the gym, scroll financial subreddits on the train, watch gaming videos while eating meals, and lay in bed viewing reels at night before sleeping. These all seem pretty typical, but then it became worse. I would be motivated by self-help podcasts or these reels to work on personal projects, start a startup, make a product, etc. but all I would do is save the respective reels to folders on Instagram. Or I'd write ideas down on Notion. Because I did something, and not nothing, these simple, yet unproductive acts tickled a part of my brain and tricked it into feeling like something had been accomplished. In reality, all I was doing was piling more and more information onto an already large pile of content. How many of those reels did I really look back at? How many of those checklist items did I actually check off on my high-level todo list? I struggled, and still struggle to follow through. My intention for this year is to not let those resources gather dust on my virtual shelves, and set my focus on completing projects, even if they're imperfect. My focus areas for tangible artifacts are robotics/ML research, writing, music, and health.

Sometimes, though, Doing Something does not always feel like anything is being done. This is the Invisible Reward. I work out or do some sort of sport 4-5 times a week, leaving me objectively somewhat fit. I meal prep 1-2 times a week using authentic Chinese recipes, while paying close attention to using low-fat, high-nutrient wholesome ingredients. The part I struggle with, however, is that while these habits are good, their outcomes largely fall under the category of maintenance rather than improvement. That doesn't mean I shouldn't do them, and frankly, my life would become significantly worse if I didn't. I must learn to be satisfied by my healthy body being the artifact.

Even though maintenance demands a portion of my time, I've found that I'm the least happy when my life is only work (robotics/ML pillar), maintenance (despite contributing to my health pillar), and social. For better or worse, I've taken back my time significantly by reducing social. I don't attend hangouts on the weekdays other than puzzling events and hard-to-get restaurant reservations. Instead, I stack exercise and social and keep my Fridays and Saturdays only for social. This leaves room for what truly fulfills me and brings me joy: creating my ideas. Robotics and ML side projects. Apps and web extensions that are precisely the kinds of software I want in my life specifically. Drawing, animating, and even playing music. It makes me feel explosive, bursting with ideas and the momentum of learning new skills or using existing skills in new ways.

To keep my sanity, I think it's important to have a balance of maintenance and creative bursts. The true culprit is perfectionism and fear of judgement flooding in to prevent creations from making it to the landing page. I just need to Do Things, Publish Things, and hit Send when I don't feel ready. Even by writing this I am taking one step closer to my goal. That truly makes me happy. I hope that by the end of this year, I have a page full of my creations — tangible, real artifacts, not just imaginations in my head.
